Thank you Curtis, Mr. Whitley.
I tell you, he's got a lot more nerve than I've got.
He had never led a song before until just a few months ago.
That's something I cannot do.
I will not do.
I've been around for 40, 50 years, but I guarantee I don't want to run people off.
The Curtis has done a good job.
He's got a lot of guts.
Good to see you guys.
I'll tell you what, it's good to see anybody nowadays after a week's worth of snow and ice.
We don't have a near as bad as they do back east.
18 wheelers cars, two or three hundred cars pile up at once and for hours.
A lot of the people up there are still a hundred thousands of people without power.
So we're doing pretty good here, relatively speaking.
And I brought the, I'm still having to do everything I bought a printer here a while back so I could start printing my stuff up like I used to.
Well, I got a home and started taking it out of the box and it said you had to have at least windows 10 or 11 to do it.
So I had to take it back.
So now I'm still doing the cutting paste, but it's good for me.
Gratitude, I decided it's last minute.
I thought I'd been preparing all this.
What does gratitude really mean?
Well, one of the dictionary says, gratitude is a quality of being grateful, quality of being grateful, an emotion of the heart.
And sometimes gratitude can be the emotion of the heart.
Excited by a favor received,
Have you all been that way?
I'm sure most of you have had at least a little bit in thankfulness.
I've been, this is a subject I've been thinking about for quite a while, you know, for a couple of years or so.
And I think even the older I get in the age, the more I think about being grateful for things that I can still do.
The Bible speaks a lot about gratitude and about thankfulness and thinking of this nature, and I'm sure Mr. Whit will mention some of those things in his message.
I didn't know what he was going to preach about, but it's a very important part
of his subject, I think, by what talks about gratitude.
Today I'm going to cover just a few things.
There's so many scriptures and some I leave out, you know, you're going to think of some even better.
So there's a lot of scriptures has to do with having gratitude and being thankful for the things that we have.
And a lot of times things that we don't have
I've got about 10 points, and that's just scratching the surface of many different things that can be expressed there.
I know you've got many of them there, and I've only got so long to do this.
Number one I've got on my deal is thank God for His creation.
Here a few weeks ago, my last message I gave on one of the scriptures was Psalms 138, I'm sorry, 139 verse 14.
And I'm just gonna quote the family.
And David said, I'm so fearfully and wonderfully made.
And you look at the body, every different parts of the body, so many intricate parts of the body, you know, and the way God made it,
I'd like to have one more arm sometime.
There was a guy in the gym that they were putting up a new paper towel dispenser and he needed one more hand to do it.
I didn't offer to help him.
I didn't want to insult him, but he really needed one more hand to get the screws out of that other one.
He must have had a problem because I come back the next time I worked out and they had a big hole in the seat rock there.
I probably should have offered to help him.
But anyway, our body is fearfully and wonderfully made.
God knows we only need two arms and two hands.
He knows our eye needs to be in front of us.
He knows our nose needs to be right here.
I think God knew too for the many things that we have.
I'm grateful, and I think most of you are too, about the book of instruction, the Bible.
It tells us how to do it right.
You know, if you buy a new automobile, you buy a new washing machine or something.
And it comes with an instruction book on how to make that work right.
Most people know that you don't put sugar in a gas tank unless you want to lock their engine up.
People used to do that years ago.
They didn't matter somebody, they'd pour five pounds of sugar in their gas tank.
I don't know how much it took to end up.
But anyway, that's something that we don't...
Excuse me.
Thankful for God's instruction book.
And he says Psalms 119 verse 105, and I'm going paraphrase that.
Well, let me see, I could go to that, I think I've got him.
And so the Bible's getting so, that pages getting a little rickety.
But I still like it.
Psalms 119.
and verse 105, thy word is a lamp unto my feet and a light unto my path.
This is metaphorically, but even physically, having a light is so beneficial.
I may come in here a few years ago, and I mentioned this one thing that we were visiting with one of our daughters out in
Way out in the mountains in California.
Way back in there, it was dark and I mentioned this about not having a line.
I had to get up and go to the bathroom and they have our bedroom that's reserved for us when we go out there.
And right around the corner, it's not very far as the bathroom.
Well, they didn't have any nightlights on them.
I guess they went out or something and I went around and went in there and all of a sudden,
hit something with all five of my toes, a big toe and a little toe and everything.
Boy, did that hurt.
And I thought, where am I?
And so I can reach down and see if I can move it and get it out of the way.
And I stuck my hand in the toilet bowl.
I embarrassed my son and awesome.
I said, he put my lights all down around the place, even in our bedroom.
But I thought, well, you know, this is a good analogy.
How many things do we do in life?
If we just had light, if we just knew how to handle this situation, some of the young people, they don't know what to do, you know, about certain situations.
They hook up, they do this, they do that.
And so, you know, God's Word is a light to our path.
And instead of the candle, the word lamp, and I think Hebrew said candle.
So, you know, we need a little night light for little things.
I'm grateful for necessities of life.
There's so many things that we really need to have and there's so many scriptures that they explain to us how important that we don't have to worry about those that Jesus said, seek you first, the kingdom of God in Matthew 6, 33.
And all these things may be added to you.
Well, in Psalms 37, there was a scripture that Mr. Gregory, our used to be pastor,
would refer to quite often, and we were both a lot younger, but he was older than I was, or he was older than me, Mr. Lawrence Gregory.
Psalms 37, verse 23, verse 23.
The steps of a good man are ordered by the Lord, and he delights in his way.
Verse 24, though he falls, he shall not be utterly cast down, for the Lord upholds him with his hand.
There's a part that Mr. Gregory would say, and I can, amen, I can get over that any day, because I agree, says verse 25, I have been young.
At one time I was young,
You young guys out here, there's Maddox.
I was 15 at one time.
I was telling Maddox, he has a better mustache than I had when I was 15.
I'd go in there and shave, you know.
Everybody ain't trying to get, I heard if you save more than they'd grow.
Well, he's got a good mustache and I didn't.
Now I'm going to wait the spring so I can cut the rest of this off.
You have to get a spring.
But anyway, oh.
I have been young and now I'm old yet I have not seen the righteous forsaken nor his seed begging bread.
And that my wife and I, we started a lot of, you know, we started our business of the cleaning service, cleaning anything with the ceilings of the floor and even the driveway and everything else.
When I was about 29 years old, we had five kids and people that I would
talk about going into business and say, well, David, most companies, it takes three to five years before you can really start making a living at it, before you start doing okay.
I said, yeah, that's right for most people.
I thought God was gonna hand me business, gonna hand me jobs, they'll have to write, well, it didn't happen.
We went dumpster diving at times.
We had one particular job,
And it was a nasty job.
Every two weeks, we had a clean bar.
The Woodland Mountains, they were out on 51st Street.
It's not there anymore.
They've redone the intersection.
And we took over five kids in there.
They closed the bars up at two o'clock in the morning.
And we'd go in there and they told us, well, anybody you find, not the register, but any money you find, you can have.
We cleaned everything.
We'd have, my wife usually would take their glasses off of the mirror back there and clean the deals.
You know, the glass plates, some mirrors, they'd be streaked and some of the kids would go through the booze and sometimes they'd find a little money that fell out of somebody's pocket and that was a blessing.
And one time, one of the kids found a whole bag of quarters
And we took them literally.
They said, any money that you find out here, you can have.
So we had a good breakfast when we got home.
We'd get through about seven o'clock in the morning.
And sometimes it'd be vomit that they missed the stool and get it on the wall and get it on the floor.
It was a nasty job.
And we didn't get paid that much.
And we couldn't afford to drop the job because we needed the money.
But anyway, we were still thankful for the job.
And we're thankful that God helped us to get out of that.
We learned an awful lot about human relations, about business, about a lot of things.
But anyway, we had never been forsaken.
We never missed a meal.
Had a lot of cornbread and beans and cornbread milk and potatoes that God never made us go to be hungry.
We need to be grateful and I am, and I'm sure you are too about it.
all of our essential benefits.
We have a lot of benefits that we really need.
I'm not going to go into a lot of them.
I'm grateful for an answered prayer and I'm sure you're a grateful answered prayer.
Some of the stuff is some kind of halfway pressurizing one of our sister churches.
I call them our sister churches.
United Church they have a magazine they put out called What if it's not tomorrow's world cuz that's Beyond today thinking beyond today, and they had a really good article in there there November December or This last year and so some of the stuff come out of that some plagiarizing a little bit and along that line even
The living church has a good publication too, so if you have some friends or relatives or something rather, you want them to bite off a little bit.
I don't care which church they go to, as long as they get the message of God and they change their mind or change their attitude and they're living a kind of life.
And if it's for them to come to our church, that's fine, you know, we're good.
But I don't mind helping them out a little bit, you know, because they got some really, really good stuff.
And the TV real cast on Sunday for the living church is really, really good, very strong.
They mentioned quite a bit the Sabbath and then the Holy Days go into detail.
So they've got some really good ones on local station on Sunday mornings.
And I didn't mean to digress that much.
And we're grateful for answered prayer and even an answered prayer.
And I've made a mention this several years ago, too.
There was no country song.
Thank God for unanswered prayer.
The essence of that, I see somebody shaking your head.
Some of you, the guy when he was young, he prayed, oh, God, let this girl be mine.
You know, I just, I'd give anything.
God just let the, and I think some of you out here probably have done the same thing.
You were infatuated with some young girl, or maybe the young girls were infatuated with the eyes.
I said, oh, God, just let this be the one.
I love this person.
And I did the same thing.
And when I started dating my wife, or she started dating me or whatever, once she tricked me on to date her,
No, it's one of the best blessings I've ever had outside of God's Holy Spirit.
But when I started dating her, I really liked her a lot.
But I didn't tell God that.
I didn't want to jinx it because all these others, you know, and I've always been kind of romantic.
But all the others I pray about, you know, God, let this be the one.
Well, you know, I'll just spend my life with her.
And I didn't do that with my wife until we'd already, well, we got married, I guess.
But I didn't want to jinx it, because anyway, but I think God for a lot of them answered prayers that I had.
Anyway, she's taken, so if I die, don't, anyway.
But yeah, like I said, that's what Charlie Kirk, I think would agree with that.
You know, one of his big gills was, you know, get married, raise kids, have a family,
I don't know anything much better for me in my life.
Now, there's some people that marriage is just not for them and maybe they don't have a big drive in the other direction.
That's okay.
But to me, that's one of the best advantages that a young man can have is a good woman and a woman can have a good man.
Anyway, and I know a lot of you are thankful too.
I know a lot of you people out here personally.
And I know and I've heard some of your stories and anyway, but that's an unanswered prayer sometimes is definitely something that I'm grateful for.
Thank you for blessings that I didn't even ask for.
You know, sometimes you get blessings you don't ask for, I have.
There was a few years ago, I don't know, three, four years ago, two or three, I don't remember, and I'd lose track of time.
But I'd had my first knee surgeries in the summer time, and we had a lot of rain, and the grass was really growing.
And I just had the, like I said, with knee surgeries, taking physical therapy, and what was that rough?
And a couple here in the church, and all of you guys know, and I asked for permission to use our name,
Trevor and Chrissy paid their lawn care people to mow my yard.
I didn't ask to do that.
I didn't tell them I couldn't do that.
They just did that and they were going to do it all summer if I needed it.
Two weeks later I got out there and I moved my own grass because I knew Trevor and Chrissy would do that and I know some of you would have done the same thing.
There's not a person in here that I wouldn't trust if I asked something.
that I would not think that you'd do it right.
You'd do me something.
We have the brethren here.
I wouldn't trade you guys for 10,000 others out in the world.
I really wouldn't.
And Fran and I are grateful too for our neighbors.
We've been in the same house for 54 years coming up in March.
And the neighbor across the street, they've had several different people over the years.
But there's one couple of, well, they have their son living with them too, and I think the mother, his mother, so there's three generations live directly across the road from us.
And about a year after the knee surgery, I had back surgery, and a hot water heater had gone out, and it was in the garage.
And I'd already bought the hot water heater and it was in the back of the pickup.
I had the bed of the pickup of the door.
I mean, whatever it is, the back, the lip down door.
And two-wheeled dolly out there, ready to put it in.
And I had my two-legged dolly standing beside me, friend.
And my two-legged daughter said, I mean, my two-legged dolly, not dolly, pardon, my two-legged dolly.
said, how do you get this?
And I said, well, let's talk about it.
And I leaned on the two-hill dolly.
And neighbors directly across the street were six to go to work, the young guy and his son.
He said, hey, David, you need some help.
And I said, no, my two-hill, I mean, my two-legged dolly said, why did you say that?
I said, well, he's got to go to work.
And so he said, David, you need some help.
I said, OK, yeah, for a little bit.
So he ordered his son.
They come over.
I was wondering how to get it in, get the box out, and take it around to the side of the Rob's door.
And the new codes, which has been there for a while, you have to have the hot water heater 18 inches off the floor because of the fumes and all that.
I thought, man, I don't know how to do that.
But I would determine.
They took it out of the pickup, took the box off of it.
They didn't even use the two-wheel volley.
They picked it up and carried it around.
They took it into the side door of the garage and squeezed their way around.
They opened a little closet back there where the air-conditioning heating unit and the hot water heater is, and they set it up on that pedestal.
You talk about a blessing.
Talk about a blessing.
I didn't ask for it, and there are Hispanic people, and he speaks and understands it pretty good, but sometimes we have to get around to his broken English, and he stood up there in the undergrabs, and he pointed at me.
He said, any time you need some help, you can knock, knock, knock, knock on my door.
I said, okay, and he said, no, I mean, he said, anytime you need help, he'd knock knock knock knock knock on my door and I'll come right away and I'll help you.
You know, that was, that was amazing.
That was amazing.
The back one, the deal I was talking about in my yard, I didn't want to act unbreakable, but it was hard for me to, I'd tell him thank you and then walk off, you know, my wife was that.
But it was about at least two years before I could tell Trevor
how it really felt about that, you know, without breaking up.
And I thought I'm strong enough now to do that.
And during the talking, I began to tear up and my voice was beginning to break and I just turned around and walked off.
You know, it meant so much to me, the people in our church that way.
And I can tell stories about several of you in here right now.
I'm not going to take the time to do it.
But anyway, we've got some wonderful, wonderful people here.
Wonderful people.
I'm grateful.
I have gratitude for that.
And it gratifies me.
It makes me thankful.
Anyway.
I think I mentioned miracles, number seven.
There's one little, even little benefits, little things in our life, you know, that we can be thankful for.
I'm gonna get off to that.
You might think, well, what's this have to do with it?
There's a jingle that used to be out years ago, and a little song that says, the best thing in life is, no, the best thing about waking up, the best thing to waking up is,
soldiers in your cup.
This thing is about waking up with soldiers in your cup.
Well, I got another verse to go with it.
The worst thing of getting dressed is putting on my socks.
I'm grateful that I can still do it.
My older brother, he's passed now, and he's two years old.
I mean, he had an extension thing.
And I don't worry about it, but you grab the sock, spread it out and you put it down there and you don't have to bend over so much.
My wife says, David, you need to go to the medical supply and get one of those.
But you know, the more I give up, the less I can do.
I mean, that's my philosophy.
The more I give up right now, the less I'll be able to do.
So I suffer through it.
And sometimes I hurt trying to get those socks stretched out over my little toe.
And then I have to semitoneals because of that.
So the worst part of getting dressed to me is putting on my socks.
The next worst thing is tying my shoes.
Anyway, but I'm grateful that I can still do that.
And Lucille's not here.
She's caught a bit over with me.
And you know, she can still do caught a bit.
Lucille threw out there.
Hello, we miss you today.
But I know Lucille, there's a lot of things that she won't allow other people to do for her because she knows that she won't be able to do it later on.
But anyway, I know she's grateful for it.
In forgiveness, I'm grateful and I'm sure you are too for forgiveness.
I'm glad some of you that I probably have offended over the years just for some of my stupid remarks.
And some of the people that are, I don't see them here today, I'll think I'll offend it.
And we got along, we do fine, but God forgives us.
And we had some messages not long ago about some of the sins that we do.
And I courtesy even meant to some, you know, that he's sort of glad that God is forgiving to him, you know.
And we're all grateful because all of sin, of course, we've been baptized and we don't think we're on the wrong track, but we still have to ask for forgiveness.
And I'm so thankful that God has found forgiveness for me.
There's one thing that I don't think before,
and I know a lot of you are in the same way.
I'm thankful that I don't have some of the problems that some of our brethren have.
You know, I don't want your problems.
I take mine and you wouldn't want mine either, but I wouldn't want some of your problems.
I really wouldn't.
You know, I get thinking about
Well, like one of the first sermons I heard worldwide years ago, the guy, I think Willie Upshaw, Lucille's not here to verify the estimate.
Ron Upshaw gave a message and he said, I really felt bad for myself because I had holes in my shoes.
He said, until I saw a man that didn't have any feet.
That's a pretty common thing, you know.
And when I was a senior in high school,
I would come home for lunch, and one day I had to take a piece of cardboard and put it in the bottom of a suit before I went back to school.
And it was just the fact that we had moved back to New Mexico to Oklahoma, and my daddy expanded most of the money doing that, so we didn't have a lot right then.
But I was thankful that I could get a few more miles out of those shoes.
It worked out well.
That got a good job.
But anyway, some of the physical problems that some of our people have, I would not want a lot of the problems.
I'm thankful that God gave me what He knows I can take and handle.
Sometimes I wonder why.
It's hard for me to think, well, there's one scripture I want to go to now in Philippians.
And I go to this once in a while.
It's hard to say that you have a favorite scripture.
I have several favorites.
I think Steve Andrews a lot of times said, this is one of my favorites and I like it too.
I've got several favorites, but this is one of my favorites that I like and I'm going to use today.
Philippians four chapter, verse four, Philippians four verse four.
Rejoice in the Lord always.
And again, I say rejoice.
Five, let your moderation be known unto all men.
The Lord is at hand.
Be careful for nothing but in everything by prayer.
And Sam's going to talk about prayer.
Be careful for nothing but in everything by prayer and supplication with me, with thankfulness, let your request be known unto God.
So with thankfulness, let your request be known.
God, you know, I really hate this situation I'm in, but I thank you for answering and giving me the things that I couldn't be even worse.
Thank you, God, for that.
There was thankfulness, let your request be known.
or so and then a piece of God which passes all understandings of keep your hearts and your minds through Christ Jesus or say finally brethren and my wife and I teach you in my piece but we've mentioned this to each other ever once in a while because we watch the news sometimes too much
And to look and see the situation to go on the stupid decisions people make, the rhetoric against one party, against the other, and it just, you know, we got to where here lately we just started putting on, get on YouTube and get some of the gospel music and put it on there for maybe 30 minutes, an hour or so, and our sleep is a whole lot better.
a whole lot better than just going to bed after listening to the news and the talk shows and all that.
But anyway, we remind each other ever once in a while, this particular last verse I'm reading your next last one.
Finally, brethren, whatsoever things are true, whatsoever things are honest, whatsoever things are just, whatsoever things are pure, whatsoever things are lovely,
whatsoever things are a good report.
If there be any virtue, if there be any praise, think on these things.
And we'll, our attitude gets so much better if we do these things.
I know that for a fact.
The verse nine, those things which you have both learned and received and heard and seen in me do, and the God of peace shall be with you.
So be you, grateful.
Have the gratitude.